Welcome to Workbook 8.2.
I already went ahead and launch the starter project and the first thing it tells us is that in the previous
workbook we were handling bad requests by throwing and catching checked exceptions.
This was really annoying because we had to go and modify every single method to throw that checked exception,
modify the service interface.
And then we had to try to run the code in every single handler method here and catch the exception if
the code fails.
We had to modify the code in many places of our app for a single functionality, and that's not something
that I like in this lesson or in this workbook, I should say.
We're going to handle bad requests inside of a single controller advice class.
Let's start with Task One tells us to create a new folder called Exception, where we're going to create
a contact not found exception, class and paste in the following code.
Let's go ahead and do that right now and we'll create a new folder called Exception.
I'll create a new file called No Contact Found Exception dot java and I will just paste in the code
from learn the part.
And did I?
Oh.
Should rename this.
Okay.
So the reason this is a runtime exception is so that we're not forced to catch it wherever it's being
thrown.
Whenever you throw a new instance of an exception, it's constructor is going to be called.
We're expecting whoever throws a new instance of this exception to pass in an ID because it's also going
to pass in a custom message into our parent constructor.
Now, what does this do behind the scenes?
If you're curious, if we go to this parent constructor, which passes the message into another parent
constructor, which passes the message into another parent constructor.
What this does is it updates a field called detail message.
So the detail message field is going to contain the message that we ultimately passed in.
Our message can be accessed using the gap message function, which is exactly what we're going to do.
But anyways, no need to focus too much on the nitty gritty.
All I want you to know is that whenever this exception is thrown in this manner, throw new contact,
not found exception.
When it's caught inside of our controller advice, we'll be able to get this message as follows.
Exception get message.
All right.
Going back to task two, we need to modify the defined index by ID function to throw this newly created
exception.
Now, if we go to the service implementation, our find index by the function already throws an unchecked
exception in the name of no such element exception.
But in this case I just wanted to throw a custom exception instead a custom exception that is more descriptive
and recall the constructor for this exception expects an ID as this exception is being created.
It's going to pass a custom message into the parent constructor, allowing us to access it later on.
And finally, because this is a runtime exception, we're not going to be forced to try and catch it.
So we don't need to specify that this function throws anything.
This makes our lives much easier because now we do not have to touch any of these operations.
We do not have to touch the interface.
We do not have to do anything inside of the controller.
Any exception that gets thrown during the runtime, we're going to handle inside of a controller advice
class.
We'll get to that momentarily.
Task three is to run the application and make a get request from postmen.
Let's do just that.
I'll copy this over to Postman right now.
It seemed I'd already done this earlier, but whatever.
I'll just press send again.
And we get an internal server error.
Now here the consumer is sending a bad request.
The ID they're sending over does not exist.
And as a result, the application fails and it throws an exception, an unchecked exception during the
runtime that throws our runtime exception, and then it responds with a 500 status code.
The 500 status code must be reserved for actual failures due to unexpected conditions.
Like, for example, if our application is not able to connect to a database for some unexpected reason,
the service might be down.
It will send back a status of 500, but the consumer sending a bad ID is something that should be totally
expected.
US as developers, we need to anticipate this scenario and ensure that the application does not fail.
It must be fully equipped to handle the bad request and respond with a 400 status code, which implies
that it's their fault.
They are the ones who passed in an invalid ID.
So we'll go over here and it tells us that the controller advice is a class level annotation that allows
you to define global exception handlers.
I'll move on to Task four, which tells us to create a class called Application Exception Handler and
apply the annotation we just talked about.
All right.
To let me collapse all of these.
And I'll create a class called Application Exception Handler.
This will serve as the global exception handler across our entire application.
Anything that gets thrown, we're going to handle right here.
All right.
And inside of this controller advice, we can define exception handlers.
The exception handler is a method level annotation that instruments a method to handle exceptions.
So inside of our global exception handler, we're going to create an exception handler method called
handle contact, not found exception.
So I'm going to say public.
And when a contact is not found, when this exception gets thrown, what we want to do is send back
a response entity.
That encapsulates a status code.
HTTP status.
As you may have guessed it, that's going to end up being 404 and we're going to call it handle contact,
not found exception.
And this method is going to receive the contact, not found exception that gets thrown.
Now, in order for this method to actually get invoked, when this exception gets thrown, we need to
market as an exception handler that is capable of handling exceptions of type contact, not found exception
class.
All right.
And so when this runtime exception gets thrown, instead of our app failing during the runtime, it's
actually going to get handled inside of this method.
And we're just going to return a new response entity with a status of 404, which would be not found.
All right, let's test this out.
And this is a lot better.
Well, right.
And here it tells us it would be nice to send the user an error response.
So right now it just sends back a 404.
But let's send back some JSON.
What we're going to do is right over here, define.
An error response pod class.
So the idea is that we'll be creating an object out of this class and all of its properties are going
to be serialized into JSON.
So here I'll just say private string message and I will generate a complete constructor as well as getters
and setters.
Here, I'll create.
A new object.
Of the error response class.
And the message we're going to pass in is exception, but get message.
So when we threw.
Our contact not found exception and passed in an IED.
Our exception passed in a message into the parent constructor which updated a particular field behind
the scenes.
And the exceptional get message method is able to grab the contents of that field.
All right.
And now here it tells us to actually specify a return type of object, because object is the most generic
Java class.
We can put anything over here.
What we're going to do is send back an error response.
As well as in HTTP status code.
Now this error response, this object spring boot is going to serialize all of its properties into JSON
before sending it back to the consumer.
So if we try this out.
Press send our our response was serialized into JSON such that the message property equals a JSON value
of the ID 1 to 3 does not exist in our records.
Very, very nice.
All right.
And I think we already did that.
We have a 404 not found task eight.
It would be nice to also send back a time stamp.
Let's do just that.
Local date time meets import it.
And as soon as the error gets created, we're just going to set the time stamp equal to the current
time.
So I think we can do that by setting local date time.
Now.
Looks good.
Let's add the usual getters and setters to our pod class.
Okay.
And now as we send back the error response, Spring Boot will serialize these two properties into JSON.
It does just that.
But I don't know about you.
This last part is not very readable.
So going over to Task nine, it tells us that as the property is being serialized into JSON, we can
use the JSON format annotation to configure how it's serialized.
So here, as you can see, our time stamp is already being serialized into a JSON string, so we're
going to do just that.
But the pattern we're going to serialize this date to is going to be the following pattern.
So I'm just going to go ahead and copy this into our code.
Trying this again.
And this is just beautiful.
Our API is now resilient to bad requests and it tells the user exactly what they did wrong.
As a consumer, this tells me exactly what I need to know to make a good request.